Q.1 What happens when you initialise you repository?
Ans:-When we make a simple directory a git repository by making use of 
the command "git init", it creates a hidden .git directory inside our 
pwd so as to store all the commits made by us. But initially it has no
commits. So the 1st thing to do after initialising a repository is to
make a commit.

Q.2 How is the staging area different from the working directory and the
repository? What value do you think it offers?
Ans:-The staging area offers us the facility of commiting selective files
instead of all the files in a commit. It is helpful since it is advised
to make a commit to each logical change and one logical change may alter
a few files not all, so we need to only commit only those altered files.
This concept of staging area is good as it gives the user more power and
customisation.

Q.3 How to use git diff differently?
Ans:- One common use that we saw is that it checks the difference between
two commits taking their IDs as the argument.But,it can do much more.

*Some imporant points:-
(1)The staging area is the copy of the most recent commit untill we add
any manually.
(2)The repository is the .git hidden folder.
(3)The working directory is the folder which we initiated with the
git init command.

All the commits in the repository have IDs.But the staging area and the
working directory have no IDs.But its quite frequently required for the 
git users to compare their working directory with the staging for changes.
git diff with no arguments does this.This shows any changes that we have
made but haven't added to the staging area.

We can also use git diff to get the differences between the staging area 
and the most common commit in the repository.
git diff --staged does this for us.

git reset --hard discards any changes in the working directory or the 
staging area, i.e it reverts back the files in the working directory 
to the stage when the last commit happened and makes the staging area
empty(means equivalent to the recent commit itself).

Q.4 How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit
per logical change?
Ans:-After making each logical change, we'll add only those files to the
staging area that were changed, and commit them.

*NOTE:-Suppose we have 3 files 1.c 2.c and 3.c
We have made some previous commits.If we make some changes to 1.c and 2.c 
and commit them, the file 3.c is copied from the latest commit as it is.

In general,all the files that are present in the working directory which 
were atleast once commited to the repository,if now we make a commit that
doesn't contain some of the files in the pwd, the latest version of these 
uncommited files that were once commited to the repository will be copied
to this newly made commit without any change.

Git allows branching.MASTER is the name given to the main branch.Everytime
we create a git repository using git init, a master branch gets created for
us.In the example shown in the video, there are 3 branches,:-Master,Italian
and the Exp.
Earlier we have seen that when we checked out earlier commits,we got the 
message of detached head. Basically git was warning us that we were looking
at a comment that was not labelled with a branch name.
Earlier we have only been in detached head state(commit previous than the
latest one) or on the master branch(latest commit).
It is possible to checkout a branch in the same way we checked out commits,
expcept for the human readable branch name rather than sequence of characters.

If we checkout a branch and make a commit,the branch level automatically gets
updated to the new level.(i.e. the branch level detaches itself from the previous
commit and gets associated with the new one).
As a terminology, we refer to the last commit on a branch as being a tip 
of that branch.
It is also possible to have multiple branch levels attached to a single branch 
level.But making a new commit will only update the branch we have checked out
and leave others alone.
It is also possible to combine two branches. This feature is known as merging.

Q.5 What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your 
history organized? How would branches help?
Ans:-Branches are used when we want to make some experimental changes to our
project without affecting the stability or endangering the original one.
It can used as for a context switching, whenever we add a new feature.
Branches helps us in keeping the project organised especially when we share it
publicly.

Branches helps us in keeping things organised while working with others.
If me and my collaberator make the changes to the same branch,we can't easily
work on separate features simultaneously.

A common work flow for people working on projects together includes making a 
new branch for every new feature or a bug fix.Once the features and bug fixes 
are completed, the author can either update master to either point to the tip
of any new branch or if the master branch has undergone anychange then merge
it with this master branch using git merge feature.

Revisiting Detached head message:-
Head  refers to the commit we are currently in.

Suppose head is pointing to any commit, (not necessarily tail).
Then if we create a branch by typing 
git branch <branch_name>
then the new branch tag is associated with this commit.
If we have checkout this branch and then commmit sebsequently,then the branch will
update itself to the lastest commit.

Each commit stores information about its parent commit so that while printing git
log,we get all the commits in sequence.

Merging Files:
If the data is present in the original file or at the point of divergence of the
branches and not present in either one of them then in the end merge it will be absent
whereas if the original file doesn't contain some data but either of the branches have 
it then it will be included in the merge.

How git does the merging process?
Ans:- Consider we have a project with master branch. At some point of time,
we branched out a coins branch from it, laterwards we further had some changes 
in the master branch also.
*NOTE:-Git also in its memory stores the point of diversion of the branches, the
state of all files in the repository at that time.
Using these three commits(at the branching point, and the commits at the tip of
the two branches),Git can create a combined version of the two branches using the 
similar strategy explained above.
This combined version will also be as a commit.
But what will be the parent of this new commit?
->It turns out that when we create a merge commit,that commit stores information about
both of its parentsSince the goal of this merge is to get the contents of the coins branch
into the master branch,this new commit will be the new tip of the master branch, i.e 
the master branch gets updated.The process is also called as "merging the coin branch 
into the master branch".
After the merge,the master branch will have all the changes it had before plus the
changes from the coins branch.
Git log will return all the commits from both the branch in order of time.
The "coins" branch tag is still with the same commit(which earlier was the tip of coins
branch).
Since now we can access this commit from the master branch itself, the tag of coins branch
is no more required.So, we can delete the coins branch.
Note that deleting branches means deleting level.THe commits will still be there.
However, if no branch can reach the commit, deleting a branch does effectively discard
its commits.

The merging of the commits that gets displayed on git log has an intersting side effect 
on git diff.Suppose we want to see the difference between two consecutive commits as listed 
in the log.Note that the commits in the log are sorted according to time.
But it happens to be that the prior one isn't the parent to the later commit, i.e these two
commits belong to two different branches.So, if we use "git diff" to see difference in these
two commits, we'll notice quite a few changes.But actually, the changes made with that commit
from its parent would be very small.
To see just the changes introduced by a commit, we'll have to "diff" it against its parent.
But we now don't know the parent of the commit due to the mix up.
Git has a command called "git show" which will show us what changes were introduced by a 
commit compared to its parent.Its takes as argument the commit ID of the commit whose changes 
are to be seen.Hence we can see the changes a commit made without knowing which its parent 
was.
The coins branch level no more required.
It can be deleted by
git branch -d coins

Merging Conflicts:-

Q. What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?
Ans:- Whenever conflict occurs while merging its better to go manually because automatic
may result in something totally senseless and meaningless thing.The author must be well aware
of the changes and hence at this time he should decide. At other times, automatic merging is 
good enough.

Effective use of staging area:-
The staging area of git is really helpful and really powerful.
When I do one thing and accidentally do something else, then I use the staging area to
help me just stage the first thing and commit that.And if I'm ready to commit the 2nd thing,
I can.If not, I can keep working on it.Its really a helpful tool to make sure that your 
commits are only the thing you actually meant to commit, even though probably along the
way, you do a lot of things.

Explanation:-Suppose you want to add a feature to the project. This whole feature will be as 
a single commit, because having too much commits also makes it very much clumsy to manage things.
So, only at significantly important checkpoints, commits are made.
Now this feature has several sub-modules,




Git Reset (Stack overflow)
--hard makes everything match the commit you've reset to. This is the easiest to understand, probably. All of your local changes get clobbered. One primary use is blowing away your work but not switching commits: git reset --hard means git reset --hard HEAD, i.e. don't change the branch but get rid of all local changes. The other is simply moving a branch from one place to another, and keeping index/work tree in sync. This is the one that can really make you lose work, because it modifies your work tree. Be very very sure you want to throw away local work before you run any reset --hard.
--mixed is the default, i.e. git reset means git reset --mixed. It resets the index, but not the work tree. This means all your files are intact, but any differences between the original commit and the one you reset to will show up as local modifications (or untracked files) with git status. Use this when you realize you made some bad commits, but you want to keep all the work you've done so you can fix it up and recommit. In order to commit, you'll have to add files to the index again (git add ...).