Q.1 How did viewing a diff between two versions of a file help you see 
the bug that was introduced?
Ans:-The bug has arised now, means that it was not present in the 
old file, but is in the new file. This bug must have arised due to
some wrong change that we have made to the old file. So seeing the
difference only is enough to figure out where the bug is, no need 
to go through the entire file.

Q.2 How could having easy access to entire history of a file make 
you more efficient programmer in the long term?
Ans:-When we are working upon a large project, we have to write a 
hell lot of lines of codes. With time, we add features to it, one
by one. Sometime it happens that adding one feature leads to 
dysfunctioning of another. So in such a case, if we have the enitre
history of that file, what changes it went through all over the time,
then we could get our flaw easily, without again starting from scratch.
So, in long term goals, having the entire history of a file makes 
us an efficient programmer, saves our time and labour.

Q.3 What do you think are the pros and cons of manually choosing when
to create a commit, like you do in Git, Vs having versions automatically
saved like Google Docs does?
Ans:-Pros:
Its better to manually do the commits because we can trace back to the 
logical reason of what changes made me make this commit.
But in case of automatic commit, the system automatically does the commit
and we have no idea of it. We may be in between a line, incomplete, when 
the system does the commit.
Cons:
Sometimes we feel that its just a minor change and i don't need to commit 
this. Like this, we may end up ignoring some really important alterations 
made. When we end up with a bug at any point of time, then it would be 
short of commits to roll back. Had we had a automatic commit machine, it 
would had have saved the commits and we would have used it.

Q.4 Why do you think some version control systems like Git, allow saving
 multiple files in one commit, while others, like Google Docs, treat each
 file separately?
 Ans:-Git was specifically designed for version control of coding related 
 activities. So its programmer, Linus Torvalds knew that in programming, 
 at many times, we have to code stuff simultaenously in multiple files
 together. So, the changes made were collective in these multiple files.
 So he added the feature of multiple file commit, so as to facilitate 
 this. Since google drive is not a version control system from programming,
 it doesn't have this feature.

 Q.5 How can you use the commands git log and git diff to view the history 
 of files?
 Ans:-Git log displays the history of all the commits that have been made,
 whereas git diff is used to see the differences made between any two 
 commits.

 Q.6 How might using version control make you more confident to make changes
 that could break something?
 Ans:-When we have a version control software, we feel more confident, and
 hence pace up our work, because we know that we have a back up, a state of
 the project in which all the functionality till the point is working fine.
 Incase if any error occurs, we can readily revert back to previous state.
 With version control with us, we can dare to take the risk to make 
 significant changes without fear of breaking the entire project.

 Q.7 Now that you have your workspace set up,what do you want to try using 
 git for?
 Ans:- I am thinking of doing a project on ASCII art generator,since its
 going to be a big proejct, a version control like git will be necessary.